Wii Fit: Fun With Linear Regression!
Published on July 13, 2008.
So I’ve been playing Wii Fit for a while.
One of the really neat things about the program (it’s not really a game, right?) is that it automagically graphs your progress as you lose weight.
It’s pretty nice getting positive feedback when you put hard work into something.
I think this is one of the very well thought-out features of Wii Fit.
Anyway, I was looking at my weight going down and figured I’d do some rudimentary linear regression on it.
I’m pretty much just eyeballing it because I don’t want to throw stuff into R or Matlab.
It seems as though I’ll reach a threshold (away from Obesity) around the end of August.
Though I’m basing this on a linear fit.
It’s possible that the actual plot will end up looking more like a power law since it’s easier to lose weight when you’re way overweight.
The point is, I’m losing weight and it’s nice to try and see when I might reach my goals.
I also think it’s worth noting that Wii Fit seems to overestimate my weight.
Because when I use my bathroom scale my weight is always lower than what Wii Fit says.
I guess I could adjust the “weight of clothing” but since I always pick the same thing I don’t want to mess with the consistency.
Now, if Nintendo had programmed some regression in automatically, I’d have to give it a 10/10 for science!
But for now I’m pretty happy with just the graph functionality.
It’s fun seeing large local fluctuations with a general downward trend.
Now, if I can only keep this graph from turning into a parabola like with my DDR Diet…